## Protection levels

#### Software
Cloud KMS keys with the SOFTWARE protection level are used for cryptographic operations that are performed in software. Cloud KMS keys can be generated by Google or imported. 

The software protection level is the cheapest protection level. Software keys are a good choice for use cases that do not have specific regulatory requirements for a higher FIPs 140-2 validation level.

#### Hardware
Cloud HSM keys with the HARDWARE protection level are stored in a **Google-owned** Hardware Security Module (HSM). Can be used same way as KMS keys.

Cloud HSM helps you enforce regulatory compliance for your workloads in Google Cloud.

Cloud HSM provides a layer of abstraction on top of the HSM modules. This abstraction lets you use your keys in CMEK integrations or the Cloud KMS APIs or client libraries without HSM-specific code.

#### External over the internet
Cloud EKM keys with the EXTERNAL protection level are generated and stored in your external key management (EKM) system. Cloud EKM stores additional cryptographic material and a path to your unique key, which is used to access your key over the internet. 

Cloud EKM protection levels are the most expensive. When you use Cloud EKM keys, you can be sure that **Google Cloud can't access your key material**.


###  Cloud HSM
Cloud HSM is a cloud-hosted Hardware Security Module (HSM) service that allows you to host encryption keys and perform cryptographic operations in a cluster of FIPS 140-2 Level 3 certified HSMs.

It is a GCP managed service.

Cloud HSM uses Cloud KMS as its front end.


###  Cloud External Key Manager
External key manager (EKM) is the key manager used outside of Google Cloud to manage your keys.

Cloud External Key Manager (Cloud EKM) is a Google Cloud service for using your external keys that are managed within a supported EKM.

- Key provenance: You control the location and distribution of your externally managed keys. Externally managed keys are never cached or stored within Google Cloud. Instead, Cloud EKM communicates directly with the external key management partner for each request.
- Access control: You manage access to your externally managed keys in your external key manager. You can't use an externally managed key in Google Cloud without first granting the Google Cloud project access to the key in your external key manager.


###  Customer-managed encryption keys (CMEK)
The Cloud KMS keys that you create are customer-managed keys. Google Cloud services that use your keys are said to have a CMEK integration. You can manage these CMEKs directly, or through Cloud KMS Autokey. 

#### When to use customer-managed encryption keys

- Own your encryption keys.
- Control and manage your encryption keys, including choice of location, protection level, creation, access control, rotation, use, and destruction.
- Generate key material in Cloud KMS or import key material that is maintained outside of Google Cloud.
- Set policy regarding where your keys must be used.
- Selectively delete data protected by your keys in the case of off-boarding or to remediate security events (crypto-shredding).
- Create and use keys that are unique to a customer, establishing a cryptographic boundary around your data.
- Log administrative and data access to encryption keys.
- Meet current or future regulation that requires any of these goals.
